.TH CREATE-INDEX 1 "November 2024" "Utiltity Commands"
.SH NAME
create-index \- generate an index.html file for a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B create-index
[ \fIOPTIONS\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generate an HTML index file in a directory for the files therein.
.PP
The "create" version of the program has options while the "make" version
has none.
The
.B --create-style-sheet
writes the default CSS file to the specified directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a summary of options and exit.
.TP
.BR \-c " " \fINUMCOLS\fR ", " \-\-columns " " \fINUMCOLS\fR
Format output in \fINUMCOLS\fR columns (currently limited to 1 or 2).
The default is 2.
.TP
.BR \-d " " \fIDIRECTORY\fR ", " \-\-directory " " \fIDIRECTORY\fR
Directory to list (default: CWD)
.TP
.BR \-s " " \fISTYLESHEET\fR ", " \-\-style-sheet " " \fISTYLE_SHEET\fR
The name of the CSS file to include in the output \fBindex.html\fR file.
The default is \fIindex.css\fR.
.TP
.BR \-t " " \fITITLE\fR ", " \-\-title " " \fITITLE\fR
Set the page title to \fITITLE\fR.
The default is to use the directory name.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable processing messages.
.TP
.BR \-\-create-style-sheet
Writes a default style sheet to the output directory.
.TP
.BR \-\-html-only
List only HTML files.
.TP
.BR \-\-only-files
List only files. Ignore directories, symlinks, etc.
.TP
.BR \-\-show-dots
Show \fB.\fR and \fB..\fR in listing
.TP
.BR \-\-show-index
Show index.html and index.css in listing
.SH EXIT STATUS
Returns zero if successful and non-zero if an error occurred.
Any non-zero return status indicates an index file was not produced.
A status of
.B 1
indicates the program printed the help message.
A status of
.B 2
indicates the specified directory cannot be opened.
A status of
.B 3
indicates an I/O Error.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Print a moderately helpful usage message.
.nf
create-index --help
.fi
.PP
Create an index file and a CSS file of the HTML files in the current directory.
.nf
create-index --create-style-sheet --html-only --title "Index of This Directory"
.fi
.SH BUGS
TBA
.SH SEE ALSO
make-index(1)

